docs/services/teams.md, before:

# Teams

## Parameters

The Teams notification service send message notifications using Teams bot and requires specifying the following settings:

* `recipientUrls` - the webhook url map, e.g. `channelName: https://example.com`

## Configuration

1. Open `Teams` and goto `Apps`
2. Find `Incoming Webhook` microsoft app and click on it
3. Press `Add to a team` -> select team and channel -> press `Set up a connector`
4. Enter webhook name and upload image (optional)
5. Press `Create` then copy webhook url and store it in `argocd-notifications-secret` and define it in `argocd-notifications-cm`

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: <config-map-name>
data:
  service.teams: |
    recipientUrls:
      channelName: $channel-teams-url
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: <secret-name>
stringData:
  channel-teams-url: https://example.com
```

6. Create subscription for your Teams integration:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  annotations:
    notifications.argoproj.io/subscribe.on-sync-succeeded.teams: channelName
```

## Templates

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18019529/114271500-9d2b8880-9a4c-11eb-85c1-f6935f0431d5.png)

Notification templates can be customized to leverage teams message sections, facts, themeColor, summary and potentialAction [feature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/webhooks-and-connectors/how-to/connectors-using).

```yaml
template.app-sync-succeeded: |
  teams:
    themeColor: "#000080"
    sections: |
      [{
        "facts": [
          {
            "name": "Sync Status",
            "value": "{{.app.status.sync.status}}"
          },
          {
            "name": "Repository",
            "value": "{{.app.spec.source.repoURL}}"
          }
        ]
      }]
    potentialAction: |-
      [{
        "@type":"OpenUri",
        "name":"Operation Details",
        "targets":[{
          "os":"default",
          "uri":"{{.context.argocdUrl}}/applications/{{.app.metadata.name}}?operation=true"
        }]
      }]
    title: Application {{.app.metadata.name}} has been successfully synced
    text: Application {{.app.metadata.name}} has been successfully synced at {{.app.status.operationState.finishedAt}}.
    summary: "{{.app.metadata.name}} sync succeeded"
```

### facts field

You can use `facts` field instead of `sections` field.

```yaml
template.app-sync-succeeded: |
  teams:
    facts: |
      [{
        "name": "Sync Status",
        "value": "{{.app.status.sync.status}}"
      },
      {
        "name": "Repository",
        "value": "{{.app.spec.source.repoURL}}"
      }]
```

### theme color field

You can set theme color as hex string for the message.

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1164159/114864810-0718a900-9e24-11eb-8127-8d95da9544c1.png)

```yaml
template.app-sync-succeeded: |
  teams:
    themeColor: "#000080"
```

### summary field

You can set a summary of the message that will be shown on Notifcation & Activity Feed 

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6957724/116587921-84c4d480-a94d-11eb-9da4-f365151a12e7.jpg)

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6957724/116588002-99a16800-a94d-11eb-807f-8626eb53b980.jpg)

```yaml
template.app-sync-succeeded: |
  teams:
    summary: "Sync Succeeded"
```

Commit message:

problem when channelName field's name is changed
The documentation doesn't say anything to keep the names shown in the examples. When you change the name of fields like channelName, it needs to be changed in the annotation created in the YAML application file for it to work again.

docs/services/teams.md, after:

# Teams

## Parameters

The Teams notification service send message notifications using Teams bot and requires specifying the following settings:

* `recipientUrls` - the webhook url map, e.g. `channelName: https://example.com`

## Configuration

1. Open `Teams` and goto `Apps`
2. Find `Incoming Webhook` microsoft app and click on it
3. Press `Add to a team` -> select team and channel -> press `Set up a connector`
4. Enter webhook name and upload image (optional)
5. Press `Create` then copy webhook url and store it in `argocd-notifications-secret` and define it in `argocd-notifications-cm`

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: <config-map-name>
data:
  service.teams: |
    recipientUrls:
      channelName: $channel-teams-url
```
**Note:** If you change the "channelName" field in the yml file above, keep in mind that you need to change the subscription name in the annotation created in the part "6. Create subscription for your Teams integration" with name: notifications.argoproj.io/subscribe.on-sync-succeeded.teams: channelName.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: <secret-name>
stringData:
  channel-teams-url: https://example.com
```

6. Create subscription for your Teams integration:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
metadata:
  annotations:
    notifications.argoproj.io/subscribe.on-sync-succeeded.teams: channelName
```

## Templates

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18019529/114271500-9d2b8880-9a4c-11eb-85c1-f6935f0431d5.png)

Notification templates can be customized to leverage teams message sections, facts, themeColor, summary and potentialAction [feature](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/webhooks-and-connectors/how-to/connectors-using).

```yaml
template.app-sync-succeeded: |
  teams:
    themeColor: "#000080"
    sections: |
      [{
        "facts": [
          {
            "name": "Sync Status",
            "value": "{{.app.status.sync.status}}"
          },
          {
            "name": "Repository",
            "value": "{{.app.spec.source.repoURL}}"
          }
        ]
      }]
    potentialAction: |-
      [{
        "@type":"OpenUri",
        "name":"Operation Details",
        "targets":[{
          "os":"default",
          "uri":"{{.context.argocdUrl}}/applications/{{.app.metadata.name}}?operation=true"
        }]
      }]
    title: Application {{.app.metadata.name}} has been successfully synced
    text: Application {{.app.metadata.name}} has been successfully synced at {{.app.status.operationState.finishedAt}}.
    summary: "{{.app.metadata.name}} sync succeeded"
```

### facts field

You can use `facts` field instead of `sections` field.

```yaml
template.app-sync-succeeded: |
  teams:
    facts: |
      [{
        "name": "Sync Status",
        "value": "{{.app.status.sync.status}}"
      },
      {
        "name": "Repository",
        "value": "{{.app.spec.source.repoURL}}"
      }]
```

### theme color field

You can set theme color as hex string for the message.

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1164159/114864810-0718a900-9e24-11eb-8127-8d95da9544c1.png)

```yaml
template.app-sync-succeeded: |
  teams:
    themeColor: "#000080"
```

### summary field

You can set a summary of the message that will be shown on Notifcation & Activity Feed 

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6957724/116587921-84c4d480-a94d-11eb-9da4-f365151a12e7.jpg)

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6957724/116588002-99a16800-a94d-11eb-807f-8626eb53b980.jpg)

```yaml
template.app-sync-succeeded: |
  teams:
    summary: "Sync Succeeded"
```
